PLACEMENT POLICY 2026 – BTech, MTech, MCA, MSc 
1. Definitions 
-  CTC – Cost to Company. This includes Salary, Bonus, All Allowances, Provident Fund, Gratuity, Health Insurance, RSU etc as applicable. 
- IT Services Recruiter - The companies that recruit en-masse, across programmes UG, PG, Integrated courses with CTC offered up to 5 LPA 
- Core Recruiter & Premium Profiles offered by IT Services Companies- The companies in relevant domain that recruit students with CTC offered up to 10 LPA 
- Dream Recruiter- Companies that offer Higher CTC comparing IT Services Recruiter/ Core Recruiter and Premium profiles offered by IT Services Companies, and have Profile, Brand, Standing,  
Market Perception in terms of Technology, Growth Prospects and relevant in students areas of study will be Dream Recruiter with CTC offered >10LPA 
- Marquee Recruiters- Example: MAANG with CTC offered > 20LPA 
- Unclassified: Analytics, Edutech companies, Teaching profiles 
2. In order to become eligible for placement, students must satisfy the following conditions: 
(a) The student’s name must be recommended to CIR for placement registration by the Chairperson of the respective department. 
(b) The student’s name must be recommended for placement registration by the Center Head/coordinator of CIR in the respective campuses. 
(c) The student must have a CGPA of 6.0 or greater. In some cases, a company might allow students with lower CGPA to appear for the process, which will be permitted by CIR. 
(d) The student should have no standing arrears. In some cases, companies might allow students with arrears to appear for the process, which will be permitted by CIR. 
(e) Each student must have maintained a minimum of 80% attendance in the training sessions conducted by CIR.  
3. Chairpersons of the departments are to forward the names of the students eligible for placement to CIR, with due consideration of the following aspects. 
(a) Academic performance of the student 
(b) General behaviour in and outside the classrooms 
(c) Attendance 
(d) Any other reason they consider as disqualification or otherwise. 
- The departments can recommend to CIR addition or deletion of names of students at any time, in consideration of factors specified in point 3 above. 
4. Offer of appointment by companies is subject to consideration of the factors mentioned in point 3 above. Any adverse remark from the department or CIR, 
may result in the offer made by the company being revoked. Students are to be made aware of this by the departmental heads and Centre heads/coordinators of CIR. 
5. Those students who are intending to pursue higher studies must inform CIR in writing. They will be permitted to appear in processes held by IT Services Recruiters alone. 
6. Students who have already decided to pursue higher studies, must inform CIR giving in writing, such students are not required to register for the placement processes. 
7. Students eligible and registered with CIR for placement (exception point 6) will necessarily appear in hiring processes. 
8. Students will be allowed to avail one placement-offer each from IT Services Recruiter, Core Recruiter  Dream Recruiter and Marquee Recruiter in the entire placement cycle 
9. From the above recruitments, selects can’t have more than one offer in hand in a progressive manner 
10. Student selected in Core/Dream/Marquee Company must give in writing his/her consent of joining the company. No explanation/excuse/justification will be accepted for declining the offer in later 
point in time. Selects will have to submit consent letter (of joining) to Additional Director Placement in person. 
11. If any student is found absenting himself/herself from any placement process where he/she is eligible and registered it will be assumed that he/she is not keen on placement and his/her name will be removed from 
placement process permanently, unless permitted to do so, for 
special reasons by CIR. 
12. All yet-to-be placed students will get opportunities to appear for placement whichever company they are eligible for. 
13. Offer status: Once received placement offer, will move out of placement from the same category of companies, meaning selects will not be allowed to appear for placement in same category 
14. There will be restrictions on number of companies students can apply/appear in the following sequence: 
a. IT Services Recruiter: No restriction on numbers 
b. Core Recruiter*: Maximum 15 opportunities 
c. Dream Recruiter*: Maximum 7 opportunities 
d. Marquee Recruiter*: Maximum 3 companies and/or Principal Director, CIR reserves the right to decide on 
e. Unclassified: No restriction 
* For these companies, regardless of students being eligible as per company eligibility criteria, CIR will administer assessment to evaluate level of preparedness of students and only those 
students who qualify, will be permitted to appear in companies. Failing to secure job in the manner mentioned above, students need to undergo corrective training under supervision of CIR L&D and concerned faculty from Departments, and if deemed 
fit, will be permitted to appear further for placement, subject to bringing in consent letter from their parents/guardians. 
15. All the eligible and registered students for placement must be present for the process from the beginning. If anybody is found absent during Pre-Placement Talk, he/she will not be permitted to attend the process further. 
16. No student will be allowed to back out of the placement process at any stage. Students doing so will be barred from future placement activity and will forfeit the previously held offer. 
17. Once a select accepts the offer from the company he/she will not be permitted/allowed to change his/her decision either to decline or choose other offer (if he/she is selected in multiple companies where the processes were held parallel) 
18. Students, who receive internship offer alone, will be permitted to appear for placement processes for FTE.  
19. Students who are into internship, cannot leave/come out on pretext of internship being very demanding and he/she can’t cope with the pressure/deadlines/targets. 
20. Canvassing with the Company Personnel will disqualify the candidature of the student. If students face any difficulty, please report to your CIR representative(s). 
21. All students have to appear for pre-placement series of tests/training as and when conducted by the CIR without fail. Performance must be consistent in such tests/training sessions, failing which 
their names are likely to be removed from placement process. 
22. All students attending placement process must be present wearing formal wear (preferred to be in college uniform), shoes/sandals (for girls). No casual wears, chappals etc will be permitted. 
23. Students attending hiring process must carry their University Identity Card appropriately displayed across, failing which such students will not be permitted to appear for the process. 
24. Students must carry necessary documents (photo copies) duly attested (by Deptt. Chairpersons) along with updated resume and passport size photos in hard copies during hiring processes. 
25. During Placement processes students have to be mentally prepared to travel any of our  campuses / any other colleges beyond AMRITA where the drive is hosted. TRAVEL CLAIMS FOR SUCH 
CAMPUSES HELD SHALL BE TOTALLY BORNE BY THE STUDENTS AND NOT CIR. 
26. During OFFLINE drive, the absenteeism shall not be entertained, if anyone found, will be permanently removed from placement 
27. It is advised that students must apply for PAN card in their current semester to avoid any delay in boarding/joining process in future point in time. 
28. Further, if the company-that has offered full time job- also provides final semester internship (regardless of the stipend status), and a select has joined for the internship, then during/after 
internship he/she cannot back out from accepting/continuing full time placement. In case, if the select abandons the full time offer, after finishing final semester internship, not only the 
candidates current offer shall be revoked but also necessary disciplinary action will be initiated, that may affect his/her award of degree. 
29. Once the Internship is converted to FTE, interns must communicate the conversion and submit a copy of offer letter to CIR without fail. Also, if students on their own receive internship offers 
must inform to CIR. 
30. Post Graduate students taking up 1 year internship in industry are advised to apprise their department guide and CIR from time to time about their progress in internship and probable conversion to FTE. 
31. Students, mentioned in point no. 30 above, must also take parallel efforts on their own, beyond 6 months in internship (in the eventuality of possible non conversion to FTE) to 
look for opportunity(ies) outside the company(ies) where they are interning, in the same industry domain. 
32. Point number 31 above, is a provision of safe guarding students’ prospects as FTE, if the interning company is not in position to offer FTE. 
33. No select will be permitted to appear off campus/walk in, unless and otherwise, CIR has facilitated such drive at venues other than Amrita University. If any select is found attending/appearing such 
off campus/walk in process, not only his previous offer shall be revoked but also necessary disciplinary action will be initiated, that may affect his/her award of degree. 
34. All placed students have to necessarily submit a copy of their offer letter/LoI to their respective CIR without fail, once they receive from the company hired. 
35. Offer revoke: Due to economic/market/geopolitical constraints, if a company chooses to revoke offer/delay onboarding, CIR will immediately apprise selects on the situation and 
affected students will be permitted to appear for further placement, subject to availability of opportunities. 
36. The Additional Director Placement (Engineering, Arts & Science and Allied Courses), in consultation with Principal Director CIR, reserves the right to make changes in the policy from time to time in the 
interest of students and the institution, and to be sensitive to actual market realities. 
37. There may be some companies, which may not fall under the categories mentioned above. In such cases, the criteria for participation in the placement process will be decided by the Additional 
Director Placement (Engineering, Arts & Science and Allied Courses). 
38. In the event of any dispute, the decision of the Principal Director, Corporate & Industry Relations shall be final and binding. 
39. Students registering with CIR for placement are required to give in writing that they have read, understood placement policy, and agreed to follow it in letter and spirit in a one working day of 
addressing placement policy.
